the most important step from shapes to patterns usually is some form of repetition.
We have already seen that the absolute operation can be used to
mirror a shape by mirroring the used coordinates in the same sense.
There are multiple different operations to make
coordinates repeat analogous to the array modifier,
while the absolute operation flips the negative values
to be positive and creates merit coordinates.
This way operations like fraction, for example,
make coordinates repeat fraction.
Just cuts off the integer part of a value and returns only the decimals.
That means that after going from 0 to 1 instead of going from one to the coordinate,
wraps around
and just goes from 0 to 1 again,
you can easily incorporate repetitions into shapes to make use of for example,
rotational symmetry.
Earlier we map the angular gradient around the center so
it goes from 0 to 1 in one rotation.
If we now stretch this six times and play the fraction operation.
The gradient goes from 0 to 1 repeatedly six times.
And you can also combine mirror operations and the repetition.
Like we have seen before.
You can use the absolute operation for the mirroring,
but in this case it is much simpler to just use the ping pong operation.
That operation does not repeat only from 0-1, but back to zero again.
And this way achieves both repetition and mirroring
This way, it is easy for example, to create a flower shape like this,
but because from 0-1 is only half a petal of the flower,
we are left with only three and not six.
So that number has to be multiplied by two.
To repeat this whole shape infinitely over the surface.
We can use the same trick with the fraction operation.
But this time we have to manipulate the very first
incoming coordinates that are used for the whole shape afterwards.
You have already seen. It should make sense that if you are repeating coordinates,
the same shape is generated in the places with the same coordinates.
I want the shape to be repeated along both axes.
And just so I don't have to manipulate the X. And the Y coordinate individually.
Instead of using the regular math node. This time I am using the vector math node.
The vector math node.
Apart from some operations that are specific to vectors in general has some
of the same functions that the regular math note has for those.
It just works in a way that it applies the operation to all X, Y.
Z channels individually.
It multiply mode, for example, it just multiplies the 1st,
2nd and 3rd channels of both inputs in pairs.
For the repetition,
I use the fraction operation again and combine it with a
scale operation that multiplies the whole vector with a value.
But now we have that problem again that the shape we created is located in a
space between negative one and positive one while
the fraction operation returns a range of 0-1.
So we have to re map again here.
I want to do this using more vector math nodes,
subtracting .5 and multiplying by two.
Now that the repetition is properly set up,
I can just crank up the scale factor here and the pattern expands
infinitely of course because all of these shapes are using the same notes,
I can just change them around and all update at the same time
to get some variation into this pattern. We can use another very useful concept.
The repeating current vectors separate the surface into individual cells.
But right now every cell is the exact same.
If we instead of the fraction operation use
a snap operation with an increment of one,
we get a different value for each of these resulting cells.
This value is constant for each individual cell and as you can see,
represents the position of the cell.
When we now use the snapped coordinates as the input to a noise texture.
We get random values for each of the cells.
This is where the white noise comes in incredibly handy with the random noise.
Each of these values should be different.
So that process can be described as assigning each cell with an I. D.
Now these random values can be used for all sorts of things by
driving the parameters that decide how the shape is created with those values.
You can easily achieve a variety of random features.
For example,
you can just change the scale of the individual shapes
by adding a multiply node and plugging it in here.
But you still need to control the random values.
You can just change the range of what scale it should be with another map range note.